So I remember this moment 11 years ago.
I sat down in the family car next to my son, except this time I was in the passenger seat.
And I had the keys to the family car.
And I looked at my son Jackson and I thought, I'm not sure if he's ready for this.
What if his hand-eye coordination doesn't work right?
What if someone runs a red light?
What if he doesn't see them coming?
And I almost wanted to keep the keys because, well, you know, they're never ready.
You see, if you wait for the perfect time as a parent to pass keys to your kids, the perfect time will never come.
If you wait for the perfect time to pass on a responsibility or the ministry that you have, a business that you have to pass that on to someone younger than you and you're waiting for the perfect moment when they have it all figured out, you will never pass it on.
You'll miss the moment.
And so I passed those keys on to my son just like my dad passed those keys on to me.
And my dad was probably thinking the same thing I was thinking.
He's not ready.
But so far my kids have done, okay, you know, a few accidents, a few tickets, but you know, they're alive and doing well.
And if you're a parent, you're going to come to that moment where you literally have to pass the keys to your kids.
Any parents know that?
You'll begin to pray a lot harder when you pass keys to your kids.
Okay.
And today we're going to start
going through a book of the Bible, a letter written by the apostle Paul to his spiritual son Timothy.
And literally this letter is Paul passing the keys of responsibility for a church over to his spiritual son.
And Timothy is not ready, but Paul knows you're never completely ready.
And the reason why we're
picking this book as pastors and leaders, we get together, we pray God.
What are we gonna teach in 2026?
And we knew the emphasis was discipleship and we wanna prepare our church for the next 40 years.
It's always been our key mission to make disciples.
How do we get every single person who calls Calvary Chapel their home to take a step on that discipleship pathway and make this part of their life?
And well, there's no better book of the Bible that talks about discipleship than first and second Timothy.
And so we wanna be the church that passes our faith from one generation to the next.
I literally just walked out of a meeting right behind here with a bunch of high school and middle school students.
These high school and middle school students are leaders.
And you know what they're doing?
They're discipling, training, investing in other middle school and high school leaders.
Yeah, that's something, yeah, we wanna celebrate, right?
Right now, Calvary kids.
Volunteers aren't just adults and parents.
They're middle school and high school students running sound, doing lights, mentoring kids, walking people to their classrooms.
And they're meaning for Bible studies so they can grow in their grace.
Listen, this is not just a journey for adults and grown-ups.
It's a journey for every single person.
And if you're older, you never outgrow your need for discipleship.
Psalm 145 verse four, one generation passes that faith on to the next generation.
And we deeply believe that this needs to be a church for every
generation, that older and younger need to be together in the formation of this spiritual family.
And this is what we see in 1st and 2nd Timothy.
This is not just a book or a letter on how to be a pastor or run a church, though there's lots of really good instructions.
It's a deeply personal letter.
And you'll get this from the very beginning.
Paul calls Timothy his spiritual son.
He says that he's like, I have no one else like you in my
He talks about the calling he sees in Timothy's life.
He talks about the moment that people prayed over him, what he sees in him, how proud he is of him.
And he speaks like a father to a son who needs encouragement because Timothy is in a very difficult spot.
And this is one of the last letters that Paul wrote.
He wrote the first letter, first Timothy, around 65 AD, about 10 years after he planted the church in Ephesus.
And then he wrote the second letter about a year before his execution in
And so these are sort of the last thoughts of a spiritual father to his spiritual son and a vision for discipleship.
And so with that being the setup, let's go to first Timothy chapter one and let's read the first few verses.
Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the command of God, our savior, and of Christ Jesus, our hope, to Timothy, my true son in the faith, grace,
mercy and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
Paul opens up with, hey, I'm an apostle.
And he's writing this letter to Timothy, but it's also a letter to be read by the entire church.
And he's reminding the church of Ephesus where Timothy is the pastor.
Hey, I am an apostle.
I'm the church planter.
I'm the one who planted this church and I'm speaking by the command of God.
He's asserting his fatherly spiritual authority because he has some things he wants to say and he's gonna say them very clearly again and with authority.
Now before we talk about Timothy, I wanna talk about how Paul and Timothy met.
So if we think about what we talked about last week, as the gospel spreads from Jerusalem
And then eventually to Samaria, it ends up in a city called Antioch.
And last weekend, we talked about a moment where Paul and Barnabas were in a prayer meeting.
And in the middle of that prayer meeting, the spirit of God said, set apart Paul and Barnabas for this work.
And so Paul and Barnabas, they yielded to what God's spirit said, and they went on this journey.
They went from town to town and place to place, sharing the gospel.
in Asia, in the pagan world, in the Roman world, and they came to a place called Lystra.
And as Paul and Barnabas healed the man and preached the gospel, many people came to faith, but then another group of people got really upset about that, and they literally stoned Paul, throwing rocks at him until they thought he was dead.
They dragged him outside the city and they left him for dead.
Maybe he was dead and God did a miracle.
We don't know exactly what happened, but
In Acts chapter 14, it says a group of the new disciples of Lister gathered around Paul, just looking at him like, oh, he looks dead.
And then he just gets up and walks back into the city.
Now I don't know if Timothy was part of that original circle that saw this, but years later, when Paul comes around on the second journey, well, here's the introduction to Timothy.
Paul came to Derby and then to Listera, where a disciple named Timothy lived whose mother was Jewish
and a believer, but whose father was a Greek.
And the believers at Lister and Iconium spoke well of him.
And Paul wanted to take him on the journey.
So he circumcised him because of the Jews who lived in the area for they all knew his father was a Greek.
So years after that first meeting where Paul shared the gospel and people came to faith, he came back.
He didn't realize maybe the spiritual son that maybe he's always wanted would be
In that moment, one of the worst moments of his life, that God would take the seeds of that and grate this beautiful relationship, that for the next 15 years, Timothy would follow Paul around so close like his shadow.
Every time Paul would stop, Timothy would bump into him like that, close.
15 years of, I see this passion in this young man.
In his letters he'll say, you know, from the very infancy, when you were a little kid, you were taught the scriptures.
He would even say this about Timothy's mom and grandma.
I'm reminded of your sincere faith, which first lived in your grandmother Lois and in your mother Eunice.
And I'm persuaded now lives in you also.
His name means one who honors God, Timothy, one who honors God and Paul saw in him a sincerity and a desire and a love.
And he's like, this young man has so much potential.
And I see their gifts in him.
So he's going to say, Hey, follow me, like leave your town and come with me.
And oh, by the way, you just got to get circumcised first.
Just a little small test.
And Timothy did this so that he could be a witness for the Jews.
It's a longer conversation for another day and all the reasons why, but Timothy was willing to say, hey, I'm all in.
And so for the next 15 years, he follows Paul around.
He becomes Paul's troubleshooter.
If Paul has a problem with a certain city and he can't go, he'll send Timothy to go.
And so he sends Timothy to Corinth when there's a problem with Corinth.
He sends Timothy to Thessalonica when there's a problem at Thessalonica.
He sends him to Philippi when there's a problem in Philippi.
And when he would send him, here's the way he would send it.
Like he said this to the Corinthians, just to give you an idea of how close these two are.
He says, I've sent to you Timothy, my son, whom I love, who is faithful in the Lord.
He will remind you of my way of life in Christ Jesus, which agrees with what I teach everywhere in every church.
And Paul's saying something amazing.
He's like, hey, I really want to come to you, but I can't, but I'm going to send a mini me.
A person who would say what I would say and who would do what I would do.
He spent so much time with me.
He knows my way of life and he knows what I'm about to say before I say it.
That's how close we are.
15 years with a person can do that.
And 15 years with Paul and Timothy developed this beautiful relationship of a father and a son.
and I just want to make this note.
Timothy, his mother and grandmother are named and affirmed.
His life and calling is named and affirmed by Paul, but all we know about his dad, he was Greek.
His dad was absent from his life, not mentioned at all.
And I don't know about you, but most people I know
are looking for a connection with their dad that they have never found.
You might be sitting here today like I never knew my dad or my dad left when I was little.
My dad and mom got divorced or they fought or my dad, I could never please him or he didn't encourage me.
And here's what I want to just acknowledge in a group this size.
Even if you had a great dad, there were still some needs
And you could admit, but the human soul longs, longs for a father.
The human soul longs for someone who would see them and protect them and know them and encourage them.
And so when you don't have that, there's a gap, there's a loss.
But the beautiful thing about the family of God
is that God can provide fathers who want your blood fathers to speak into your life and to love you and to serve you and to cheer you on and to believe in you and to be proud of you.
And this church is filled with spiritual fathers and mothers.
So if you've never found that, then be encouraged because Paul's not the only one who is doing this.
And so Paul sends Timothy now to Ephesus.
And he says, I don't want you to just go to Ephesus to fix a few problems.
I'm giving you the keys to be the pastor of this church in Ephesus.
And Timothy is not ready.
And we see this in verse three.
As I urge you when I went to Macedonia, stay there or remain in Ephesus so that you may command certain people not to teach false doctrines any longer or devote themselves to myths and endless genealogies.
Such things promote controversial speculations rather than advancing God's work, which is by faith.
And the goal of this command is love, which comes from a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith.
He starts out by saying, when I left, I urge you to stay in Ephesus.
And if you look at that word in the Greek, it means I pleaded with you, I begged with you, I strongly urge you to stay in Ephesus.
Paul probably has some indication that
Timothy feels like quitting.
Maybe he sent word like, this is too much.
Paul would say to Timothy in his timid nature, God has not given you a spirit of fear, but of power, love, and a sound mind.
And you hear him acting this fatherly tone.
Timothy, you are called to this.
You can do this as a father could only say to a son.
Sometimes in life you have to do hard things because it's the right thing.
And if you don't do it, who else will?
These people need to know Jesus.
in Ephesus, this fatherly tone, calling him up.
Maybe Timothy got lonely.
Maybe all the controversy and speculation, it was like, man, I'm doing what's right and people undo what I do.
I try to teach what's right and then they have the false teachings and now all the people are confused and it feels like I'm just frustrated.
Like no matter what I do, it's not working.
Maybe he felt like he was living in the apostle Paul's shadow.
Like I could never live up to him
When he went to Ephesus, miracles happened, people repented, revival happened, and I'm here trying to manage this church and all this conflict.
I'm not the right person.
Anybody ever been in a hard place where you felt like quitting?
Where the task was bigger than you?
And maybe this is for a few people, but if you're in a hard place right now, maybe you're in a hard marriage, maybe you're in a hard work environment, maybe you're in a hard,
situation in this church or with a small group or with another person.
The easiest thing for you to do is walk away.
The easiest thing for you to do is quit.
The pain will stop.
It'll create like this newness, but I want you to say that maybe consider the fact that God wants you to stay and do what's right and do what's hard and watch him shape you and form you and do this slow,
Miracle building and changing the relationship and the dynamic and you in the process Sometimes we just need to hear remain in the difficult place because God can make a way where there is no way, right?
that's What we see happening here and so why is Ephesus such an important place Well, Ephesus is going to be one of the most important
churches in the New Testament.
I mean we have the letter to the Ephesians, we have the letter to 1st and 2nd Timothy, we have the letters of 1st, 2nd and 3rd John probably written in Ephesus and we have the book of Revelation addressing the church of Ephesus.
One of the most written about cities and the most important cities in the Roman world.
I'll show you a map really quickly.
If you think of the Roman Empire,
Rome was the biggest and most important city, but Ephesus was among the top four cities in that Roman Empire, one of the biggest port cities economically.
It was a place of great wealth.
I mean, this is a real place, by the way.
I mean, just so you know, when you read the Bible, this is not like a made up place in history.
Like you can go to Ephesus and see the remains of this place.
I was just there a couple of months ago.
It's in Turkey.
And we saw this, like this beautiful library wall that's so well preserved.
I mean, not everything's preserved, but you see, wow, this is an amazing place.
And it spans such a big area.
I mean, I saw this amphitheater.
This amphitheater seats 20 plus thousand people.
Can you imagine?
This is over 2,000 years old.
It used to be filled with people as they would gather together and watch.
And so this is in a big and important city that's a part of real history where the gospel came.
And it was a very superstitious city.
It was the home of a goddess named Artemis.
And we're gonna find out more about Artemis because if you know the goddess, you'll understand the culture, but it's very superstitious, very spiritually driven.
And her temple was one of the seven wonders of the ancient world.
It was destroyed, but this city is just absolutely massive, an important, key city.
And I want you to,
Look at Acts chapter 19, just to see what happened when Paul went to the city.
10 years before he wrote this letter, Paul and Timothy showed up at the city and some crazy stuff happened.
So Acts chapter 19, I'm just going to scan through it.
I want you to read this on your own because this backstory of Ephesus helps us understand the situation Timothy is in.
So Paul shows up in Ephesus and the first group of people he meets are 12 disciples of John the Baptist.
They've heard about repentance, but they don't know about Jesus or the cross or the resurrection or the power of the Holy Spirit.
Paul explains this to them, Timothy, right by his side.
They repent, they are baptized, they are filled with the Holy Spirit, and they go out and start sharing the gospel everywhere in Ephesus.
And then Paul goes to the Jewish synagogue and starts teaching and reasoning.
And some of those Jewish leaders, they believe the gospel, that Jesus is the Messiah, that he's come from heaven to earth, and by putting their faith in, trusting him, they can be saved and forgiven and given a whole new life, reconnected to God.
But there are some people in the synagogue that are frankly ticked off.
And so they kick him out of the synagogue.
You know what Paul does?
He goes right next door.
He rents a lecture hall called the Hall of Terenes.
And the Bible says for two years, he taught for whoever would come, the Bible and the message of Messiah and forgiveness.
And the Bible says out of that lecture hall right next to the synagogue,
the word of God went out to the entire region of Asia.
This became like the epicenter of gospel work for two and a half years.
And then Acts 19 says, and then extraordinary miracles happened through Paul.
I mean, a handkerchief that he had touched was taken to his person who was sick and the handkerchief was put on that person and they were healed.
Extraordinary miracles were happening.
Demons were being cast out and it was like chaos was happening.
And it says many people.
When they saw this, they took their sorcery scrolls and their magic superstitious articles and they put it in a big pile and they burned it and Luke records this.
The value of all the scrolls and all things they burned was over $5 million.
So you know you're serious about Jesus when you're willing to put $5 million of idle stuff.
and just torch it and say, Jesus worth this because he is God and they are not.
And I don't care what people think because I want to give my life completely to Jesus.
That is real revival.
And then people got worried in the city.
And so they started a riot.
And literally the gospel of Jesus Christ was turning this pagan city upside down.
Now, I want you to think about this.
Have you felt recently like, man, our world is on fire?
What is going on?
It's crazy.
Ephesus was a city on fire.
It was crazy.
And if the gospel could penetrate all that darkness and all that corruption and it could bring revival, could God do it again here?
In us, through us.
I mean, it should make us curious, right?
It should make us expecting to pray.
God bring that type of revival.
I remember,
Distinctly, when I first became a Christian, I had all these cassette tapes.
Do you remember what cassette tape is?
I had hundreds and hundreds of dollars for cassette tapes.
And like, you know, my music choice is like, you know, ACDC, I'm on the highway to hell.
And I'm like, I'm a Christian now, so maybe, maybe I shouldn't listen to that song.
But I spent so much money on all these cassettes.
Could I just break them all and throw them away?
Would Jesus be worth all that?
You see, when Jesus grips your heart,
The cost of things goes away because he's worth all those things, right?
And what might Jesus be challenging you to put away or throw away that's not of him anymore, but you kept it just in case, because it cost you something?
No, revival is shaping this place in Ephesus.
And so Timothy, now 10 years later, goes to this place.
Paul hands them the keys, said, Ephesus is crazy.
God's at work.
Timothy's not ready, and he's experiencing controversies and all these kind of weird genealogies and all these kind of things.
And he's definitely not ready for this.
I mean, we'll read the letter.
We'll see that people are saying, hey, you're not allowed to be married.
The Bible forbids marriage.
You're not allowed to eat certain types of food.
You're not allowed to do certain things on certain days.
And because they don't have the Bible like we have it,
All the people in Ephesus, the church, they didn't know who to trust.
Like who do I believe?
And so Paul speaking, as an apostle, as a church planner, as an authority, I've brought you the gospel.
I've entrusted the leadership of this church to Timothy, so listen to him.
And now Timothy's gotta figure how to straighten all these things out.
And so this letter's gonna be filled, not just with a fatherly affection for Timothy, but instructions for the church.
Like how do you pick the right leaders?
Like how do you teach generosity?
Like how do you deal with conflict?
How do you deal with political and cultural divides?
It's a good thing we don't have these problems today, you know, right?
Listen, this letter wasn't written to us, but it's written for us.
And it gives us great instructions on how do we lead a church today?
That's why this is called one of the pastoral epistles.
First, second Timothy, and Titus.
In fact, in chapter three, the reason for the letter is stated very clearly.
Paul says this to Timothy.
If I'm delayed, meaning I wanna come to you,
you will know how people ought to conduct themselves in God's household, which is the church of a living God, the pillar and foundation of the truth.
Paul's like, I'm gonna come, but until I come, this letter of instruction Timothy is gonna help you to lead and manage this church so it becomes healthy, so it thrives in this very chaotic environment.
And I want you to look back to verse five.
And so he says, the goal of this command is love, which comes from a pure heart,
a good conscience and a sincere faith.
So he says, Timothy, you're going to deal with a lot of foolishness, a lot of conspiracy theories, a lot of people talking about genealogies and trying to add to the gospel.
And we're going to talk about all this stuff in the next two weeks.
But he says, honestly, the most important thing of your faith is that it's expressed in love.
But Timothy, the most important thing you can know as a Christian,
is that you love God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and you love your neighbor as yourself.
And if you can be animated and motivated by that type of love, you'll be a good pastor.
You might not always know the answer, but people will know that you love them.
And he says that love is expressed in three ways.
A pure heart, a good conscience, and a sincere faith.
So I'm gonna ask you, just, would that be said of you?
That in the way you live your life for Jesus,
The primary expression of that growth in connection to Jesus is that you love God and love other people more and more every day, not just people like you, not just people that think like you or vote like you or act like you, but people of other tribes that you don't just love your neighbor, but you love your enemy, that no one can say about you, that there are people that you don't love.
and Timothy is challenged to love out of a pure heart, out of a genuine care and love for others.
This is the kind of love out of a pure heart that's the same in private as it is in public.
You know, sometimes you'll meet people that are like, love you, love you, love you, love you.
And then they're blasting all these people on social media or private.
I hate that person's guts, but I said I love them because I want to look spiritual.
Now that's not pure heart.
A pure heart is your genuine.
You really love people.
Jesus said this, blessed are the pure in heart, for they will see God.
As you sit here today, God seen in knowing everything about you, would you say that your love is expressed out of a pure heart?
And if not, a simple prayer, God, give me a purity of heart that I don't have.
And day by day, make my heart
Reflect your heart.
Timothy is reflecting a person with a love that comes from a pure heart.
The next thing, it says a good conscience.
A conscience means you've developed a set of convictions.
And four times in the first part of this letter, we're gonna see the word conscience.
What is conscience?
It means once you developed your convictions, you developed them and you hold to them.
So whenever it says, hey, let's go drinking,
You're like, no, I had a conviction.
I'm not gonna live that way anymore.
And if you don't have that conviction, you just like, and social pressure sort of drags you all over the place.
And then you have this low grade sense of guilt.
Like I shouldn't have gone to that place.
I shouldn't have done that thing.
I shouldn't have watched that.
Like everyone said, hey, watch this new series on Netflix.
And you're like, oh.
And like, well, I guess they're Christian and they watch it.
So it's okay for me to watch it.
No, develop a conviction.
I'm not gonna put a wicked thing before my eyes.
It's okay to turn something off and say,
That's not something that's good for my soul.
And so what does it mean to have a good conscience?
It means to develop convictions.
God given biblically grounded convictions.
And then stick with them when everyone else goes their way.
And Paul's like Timothy, your love is expressing that good conscience.
And then finally, a sincere faith.
a pureness about wanting to honor God and please God and live for God and be devoted for God and and not falling for the trap of Jesus plus legalism or Jesus plus deep spiritual understanding or Jesus plus prosperity or Jesus plus you fill in the black.
It's just Jesus.
A sincere faith in Jesus.
I am saved by grace through faith.
It's the gift of God.
It's all about Jesus.
Listen, and that's not an oversimplification.
That's what real faith is in everything else.
is a counterfeit.
And next week we'll talk about some of those counterfeits.
And so what's our takeaway?
Just in the first five verses of this letter to Timothy.
I'm gonna give you two.
Here's the first one.
Find a Timothy.
Find someone in your life to pass the keys to.
Maybe not all the keys at once, but maybe one at a time.
Find someone younger than you.
At your place of work.
at your church, in your small group, in your family, where you can say, hey, I've been doing this for a while, but I want you to follow me and hang out with me and I'm gonna give you some of this responsibility a little at a time.
So what should you look for in that person?
Well, we see these qualities.
Love expressed in a pure heart, a good conscience and a sincere faith.
And I would just add this word that we see in Timothy's life.
He's teachable.
He's constantly asking and receiving feedback, and he's taking it, and he's putting it into practice.
And that's the most important quality you can have as a Christian, is that you can be taught.
Because every time someone says, hey, here's the keys, and you're like, I'm gonna do it my way, I don't need you.
That's not gonna work very well.
That's gonna end in disaster.
And so find a Timothy a person who is teachable.
And where do you find them?
Again, they might be all around you.
Where do you find them in this church?
Well, I'd say you find them where you show up.
We talk about the discipleship night and the next step in following Jesus.
Well, we have a lot of people who are showing up in these spaces looking for guidance.
I'm gonna show you real quickly just this growth track we have.
A lot of people that are new to this church, their first step is to take connect.
You wanna meet young Timothy's?
These are people who just showed up at our church.
We have 100 of them signed up for our next connect class and they don't know anyone in the church.
They might not even know what they believe.
This is a great place for you to go.
I'll leave a little table of eight to 10 people and I'm gonna get to know some people and God may direct me to one person in particular that I invest in.
Or maybe it's the following Jesus.
You know, after you go through a connect and understand what our church is about, maybe you're a new Christian.
Like, how do I read the Bible?
How do I pray?
How do I hear God's voice?
How do I develop convictions?
And when we teach this class and then we sit in small groups of eight to 10 people and there's a chance for the Pauls and the spiritual mothers to speak into the lives of those who are younger.
And then it's a freedom.
It's dealing with past brokenness, maybe the issues with your parents or unanswered prayers or abuse that you suffered.
How do you let the gospel take and bring healing and transformation to those deep wounds and questions you've had in life and you find forgiveness and peace?
And then you go through formation classes of how do I live in a Christian marriage?
How do I raise kids and how do I deal with my finances and all these classes are taught, but then groups
develop and relationships are formed.
And if you show up in those spots, you will find incredible opportunities to invest in the Timothy's of our church.
And if you're a leader and you've gone through all those things, well, you step into a leadership track and that leadership track looks like this.
Hey, now I'm not joining a group.
I'm leading a group.
I'm not being served by the church I'm serving.
I'm going through a leadership development program called Ethos where I learn to discover my gifts in leadership and serve this church and other people in new ways.
I become a deacon or an elder in some way or I become an intern.
I give 10, 20, 30 hours a week to the work of ministry either here or across the globe and all these opportunities exist, not in this environment, but in some of these smaller environments.
And so if you're looking for a Timothy, well they're all around you in these places and if you show up,
Well, I want to give you the why.
Why, if you're a Christian, should you look for this younger person and invest in it?
Well, because it's what discipleship is.
You see, I was at a Promise Keepers event 30 plus years ago, and I heard the speaker say this, you will never reach your full potential in Jesus Christ until you find someone else who reached their full potential in Jesus Christ.
And I was like, huh, let me think about that for a second.
It didn't sound right the first time I heard it, but I don't know.
And the more I thought about it, the more I realized it is right.
The Christian life is not about just you and God.
I repent to my sins, I receive peace from God, I've learned to pray, I've learned to read the Bible, I've learned to give.
Every once in a while I serve, but it's just like me and him.
You won't see that pattern anywhere in the New Testament.
That might be an American, Western version of Christianity,
the version of Christianity reading the Bible is people doing life together, people investing in each other, people mentoring each other and watching that development get passed from one generation to the next.
And in fact, here's what Paul says.
This is one of the last thing Paul writes in one of his last letters to Timothy.
He says this, the things you've heard me say in the presence of many witnesses and trust to reliable people who will also be qualified to teach others.
Think about this statement.
This sentence is four generations of discipleship.
From Paul to Timothy, remember what I taught you.
And from Timothy to reliable people.
So now Paul taught Timothy, Timothy is teaching reliable people and reliable people are gonna entrust that to teach other people and we have four generations of investment and discipleship.
Very intentionally.
We make disciples who make disciples.
And so we wanna be thinking like, God, how can I,
How can I find a Timothy?
This seems so normal, so obvious, so part of what happened with the early church.
How can it be true of me?
And then the second one, find a Paul.
Find someone to take the keys from.
And don't just grab them and say, thank you, I got this.
Cause they might just give you one key at a time.
And you want to listen to that Paul because the Bible says,
Well, Jesus said this in Luke 1610, if you're faithful with a little bit, God will give you more.
If you're faithful with one key, God will give you two.
So be a person who's trustworthy once you find that person.
Let them speak into your life.
And how do you find this person in some of those same small environments?
Go to connect.
You'll see Paul's, you'll see spiritual dads and moms, mentors who want to invest in your life.
They'll be sitting around a table waiting to say, this is what I see in you.
And this is how I want to coach you or develop you or help you grow as a Christian.
This is happening again in these smaller environments all over our church, but it requires us to show up.
How do you know which Paul to pick?
Which spiritual leader?
Well, you look at their life and you watch the way that he treats his family.
You watch the way that
she handles conflict.
You watch the way that he casts vision.
You watch the way that she problem-solves.
And you're like, I want to be like that when I grew up one day.
And that's how this process of discipleship works.
And so we want to be people who find a Timothy, who find a Paul in our journey with Jesus because Christianity is not meant to be something we do on our own.
Now, I just want to say this one note.
Most people will never find that one person like Paul, that's all those things to them.
I've not had that in my life.
I had a great dad and I've had different people who had different points in my life, spoken in my life and said things to me I needed to hear and even people to this day, but there's probably a man over here and a man over here and some leaders over here that each do that for me.
So if you're waiting for that perfect person, no, just ask Lord who's the next person speaking my life and just watch that relationship develop and be curious and thoughtful about it.
I want us just to take a moment, and I'm gonna ask a couple questions.
And the first question is this, if you've been a Christian for two years or less, I want you to raise your hand for a second.
Just raise your hand, everybody.
Okay, guys, look around.
Raise your hand, because everyone's gonna raise their hand at some point.
All right, so look around.
So these are like the Timothy's.
Timothy's not about the age, it's about you're newer in the faith, you're growing, you're learning, you're trying to figure it out.
And so we wanna be the type of people that are like, oh, that person raised their hand.
Oh, that person right in front of me, behind me.
So there are people here that need investment.
And so I'm gonna ask you to raise your hand.
We're gonna pray for you that you grow in the grace of God and that God provides a chance for you to have that mentoring relationship.
So just raise your hand again.
And as a church, let's pray for these young believers in Jesus.
Father, I thank you for the men and women and young people who raise their hand right now.
God, I pray that you would give them a hunger and thirst for you.
God, I pray that their love would be expressed in a sincere faith and a good conscience.
and this purity of heart.
God, I pray that you'd provide mentors around them.
God, they would use them as they were raised up for your purposes.
They would experience incredible joy in this journey.
I pray this in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Now, you've been a Christian more than two years.
Raise your hand.
Oh man, look around.
This room is filled.
This room is filled with Paul's.
with many women who've been searching for truth and following Jesus and discovering His grace.
And I just wanna say this, for those of you who have mentioned that, I'm gonna pray for you in a moment, but I wanna say a few things too.
So here's the first thing.
If this sounds like a guilt trip, like you should do more, you're not doing enough, don't hear that.
When you find someone to invest in, it's gonna bring you more joy and more gratification.
then anything else you'll ever do, I'm telling you, the most important things, the greatest moments in my life are not the big groups as much as it's awesome to see God work in big groups.
It's the one on one.
It's finding the next leader and speaking into his life or her life and watching them grow and do their thing.
And I just get to stand back and go, I get to watch God work and flow through all these different leaders.
And it's amazing to see.
So don't let this be a guilt trip.
Let this be a holy opportunity.
Second thing I wanna say is,
If you raise your hand, you're like, uh, I'm not really qualified.
I haven't even done the growth thing.
I'm like way behind.
Well, if you have a hunger and thirst for righteousness, the Bible says you'll be filled.
And the idea that you can be a Christian and say, Hey, no, I did the thing.
I did the altar call thing and I went forward and gave my life to Jesus and I'm going to heaven.
And I don't really want to do much else.
I just want to go to heaven.
You know, Jesus has some things to say about people who are like that, like the people who bury their gifts.
Listen to the words of Jesus.
For someone who holds that attitude, you wicked, lazy servant.
That's Jesus.
Okay.
I don't want to be that person.
Or the author of Hebrews who says, you know, by now you should be teachers, but you still need milk like elementary truth because you haven't given yourself to the gospel.
So there should be for some of us the weight of conviction like, you know, man, I've been a Christian for two years and I don't know the basics.
I still haven't gotten out of the seat in any other environment.
Let this be a gentle or not so gentle nudge.
Like God has something for you that will require something of you, but the reward for it's way greater than what you'll ever give.
And so you've been a Christian here for two years or longer.
Raise your hand.
Father, I pray for all of us who are raising our hands.
No matter what our age, we've been walking with you, had opportunities to read your word, to grow in your grace, and there's a lot we don't know, and there's a lot we haven't figured out, and there's still a lot of brokenness in us.
But you've called us to pass the keys to invest in others, and so Lord, help us to see around us those young, younger people who don't know you as well, and who would just so desire to be mentored, be invested, and be seen.
and God give us the eyes to see who those younger believers are and to invest in them as a part of the spiritual family.
And I pray that on the journey, you would amaze us at your faithfulness.
We pray this in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Hey, I want to invite a third category of people to respond and that's maybe you haven't been a Christian for more than two years or less than two years because you're not a Christian.
The reality is there are people who walk through this room and you're not a Christian yet.
Maybe you're here because you're curious.
Maybe you're here because someone invited you and you're like wondering.
And so in a moment we're gonna make an invitation and this invitation is not a moment for Christians to leave like, oh I'm already Christians so I'm leaving.
This is a moment for Christians to participate.
This is why we need a church that prays and invest because the people who come forward and stand at this altar are gonna need people to invest in them.
And that's what a church is.
We are a spiritual family.
So I'm gonna ask those Christians in this room just to pray.
that God would be at work in this moment, this most important moment for people who make a decision to follow Jesus.
So Paul opens the letter to Timothy saying, from God our Father and from Jesus we get these three things, grace, mercy, and peace.
If you're a Christian in this room and you've received the grace of God, just raise your hand.
The grace of God means you don't deserve it, but God gave it to you anyway.
If you're a Christian sermon, you've received the mercy of God.
You did not receive the judgment that you deserve because if you're saying Jesus took it for you and you gave it to him, raise your hand.
Listen, we are people who have received a great mercy from God.
If you've received the peace of God, now you're not at war with him and his peace is inside you, raise your hand.
Listen, these things don't just happen.
because you want them to happen.
They happen out of a decision for you to say, God, I don't understand your grace.
I haven't begged for your mercy and I don't have your peace.
And every human being has to come to this moment where you say, Jesus, I need your grace.
I don't deserve it.
I need your mercy because without it, I'm bound to an attorney without you and judgment.
And your peace, well, a lot of people pretend to have peace with God and have all these spiritual answers, but the deepest part of them knows they're not at peace with God.
Because they have not yet made a decision to give their life completely to Jesus, to repent of their sins and to believe the goodness of the gospel that whoever comes, whoever is willing to bow their knee and give control of their life to God.
And profess their faith in Jesus.
They can be saved, forgiven, and free.
And this is a decision
that no one else can make for you.
God's not gonna make it for you.
Your mama and daddy, your grandpa and grandma can't make it for you.
Your brother and sister, your friend who invited you can't make it for you.
It's really a decision that only you can make and God offers to you.
If you're thirsty and if you're hungry, then come and I will meet the deepest needs of your soul.
And so we're gonna give you a moment to make this decision.
We're gonna play a song.
And if you know this is you and you wanna begin a relationship with God and experience his forgiveness and grace and mercy and peace, I'm gonna ask you to stand up and exhibit 20 seconds of insane courage to walk forward in front of all these people, to stand here at the base of this platform and to say a simple prayer that I will lead you in that sounds like this.
Lord, I open my heart.
I invite you inside.
Forgive my sin.
I'm gonna follow you the rest of my life.
And if that's you,
Well, as you stand and as you walk this way, this room will burst into applause because we know what this was like for us when we made this decision.
So now is your time.
Stand up and walk this way and we will celebrate with all of heaven as you come.
Come on, it's your turn.
Broken as my life may be I will give you every piece I hear you call
We are so honored to be part of this moment in your life.
When you say these words, this confession, these will be the most important words that will ever come out of your mouth your entire life.
The Bible says by this confession that you are saved as you put your faith and hope and trust in Jesus.
And so I'm gonna lead you in a very simple prayer when you pray these words to God he's listening and he's gonna be acting because he's made some promises to you that if you
confess him before men, that he will confess you before God in heaven.
That if you come to him and you repent him, your sins will be forgiven.
They'll be washed away from you.
Not just the guilt of your sin, but the shame of your sin.
He promises to send you his spirit.
He promises to begin the work of new creation in you.
He promises to take all the brokenness in you and begin to redeem it piece by piece.
He promises to adopt you into his family as a son or daughter of God.
And this is just day one of following Jesus.
It gets better after that.
as you go on this great adventure of following Jesus.
So in a moment we're gonna pray, but I just wanna hesitate for just one more moment for any procrastinators in the room.
I was a procrastinator.
I heard people invite me to this for years and just kinda dragged my feet and I just, if I could do it all over again, I wouldn't have wasted all that time.
So if there's anyone in this room that's like, man, I need to be up there.
We're not going to play another song.
We're just going to invite you to step into the aisle.
You're already standing.
Just walk this way.
We want to celebrate this moment with you.
This is too important just to disregard.
All right.
Welcome.
Glad you're here.
We're glad you're here.
Welcome to the family of God.
We're really glad you're here.
Good stuff.
All right, so God is listening, and I'm just gonna give you some words to repeat to him.
It's my words, but God knows your mind and heart, and he's gonna answer these prayers as you pray to him.
So say this to God.
Lord God.
I open my heart.
and I invite you inside.
Forgive my sin.
Today I repent.
Now fill me with your spirit and I will walk with you all the days of my life.
I pray this in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Guys, congratulations.
Welcome to the family of God.
Hey, so before you go back to your seats,
You just made the most important decision of your life.
I'm gonna ask you for five more minutes to follow me and our crew over to the open door where we're gonna give you a Bible, have a quick conversation.
You'll be back with your friends in a moment.
Church, can we give them a hand as they go this way, guys?
Follow me.
And church, go into the lobby and find your next step in your journey with Jesus.
So let's take a last moment and sing our song of praise in response to the goodness of Jesus.
His name is worthy of our praise.
receive this benediction.
Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy.
To the only God our savior through Jesus Christ, our Lord.
Be glory, majesty, dominion and authority before all time, now and forever.
Amen and amen.
Go in the peace and blessing of our God.
If you need prayer for anything at all, our prayer team will be right here at the front, ready for you.
But if not, have a great rest of your week.
We'll see you next week.